1. Innovations that led to Generative AI
00:00 - 00:06
The year 2023 marked a remarkable milestone

2. The ChatGPT phenomenon
00:06 - 00:31
where AI's influence reached all sectors of the business world, transforming industries and redefining how we connect, work, and innovate. OpenAI's ChatGPT, which reached 100 million users in just a couple of months, has become more than a technological marvel; it's a business phenomenon, outpacing even the most viral social media platforms.

1 Yahoo Finance
3. The ChatGPT phenomenon
00:31 - 00:55
Major corporations and small startups alike have harnessed its capabilities for enhanced customer service, personalized marketing, and innovative product development. For example, everyone’s favorite owl, Duolingo, has introduced Duolingo Max to enable more AI-powered features that optimize learners’ language learning experiences.

4. A landscape of innovation
00:55 - 01:12
Picture the last decade as a landscape of innovation, shaped by businesses and technology leaders working hand-in-hand. Each year, they've built upon the previous successes, crafting a tapestry that's 100 million times more influential than it was ten years ago.

5. The impact of the cloud
01:12 - 01:48
The advent of cloud computing, led by giants like Amazon, Google and Microsoft, helped generate a massive amount of data, and bring the data stored in silos into central platforms. Additionally, cloud computing made huge amounts of computing power available. This combination of massive amounts of data and next-gen computing power laid the groundworks for breakthroughs in Generative AI. This effectively democratized AI, allowing even small businesses to tap into vast computational resources and transform themselves.

6. GANs - Generative adversarial networks
01:48 - 02:28
Another important breakthrough is Generative adversarial networks, or GANs. GANs were the first type of models were two models adversed or competed against on another. They were introduced in 2014 and enhanced the capability of AI to generate photo-realistic images; We all remember the stunning results from that face aging app, right? They were produced by GANs. The fact is that GANs also revolutionized image product design, even enabling companies to create virtual prototypes of new car models, saving both time and resources.

1 https://www.boredpanda.com/old-age-filter-photos-faceapp/
7. Transformers
02:28 - 02:52
In 2017, researchers at Google published a paper on a model architecture called transformers. This consists of a powerful ensemble that could understand the complex dance of words and their relationships. This made text generation much more convincing, and signals the rise of the modern chatbot.

8. RLHF: Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback
02:52 - 03:14
Reinforcement Learning with Human Feedback generated the next breakthrough. This may be an oversimplification, but it enabled chatbots to learn from humans. RLHF was a dynamic duet with users, refining performances through feedback, like a conductor guiding an orchestra to perfection.

9. The age of creative machines
03:14 - 03:48
There are too many technological advances to name where we are today, but we hope these gave you an idea of the evolving landscape of generative AI. Now we truly live in the age of creative machines. ChatGTP-4 can hold conversations in multiple languages, and companies like Midjourney and Stable Diffusion have used this technique to allow their users to create art by a simple text prompt. This picture made by a Midjourney user actually won an art competition!

1 https://www.nytimes.com/2022/09/02/technology/ai-artificial-intelligence-artists.html
10. The journey of generative AI
03:48 - 04:07
Generative AI's journey is more than a technological feat; it's a testament to human creativity, collaboration, and business acumen. It's a wave of transformation that will redefine industries, creating unprecedented opportunities for growth, efficiency, and customer connection.

11. The stage is set
04:07 - 04:20
The stage is now set for you and your business to leverage these innovations. Engage with these tools, align them with your goals, and let them fuel your next business success.

12. Let's practice!
04:20 - 04:29
Embrace this new era; be part of it, and together, let's shape the future. The curtain is rising; are you ready?
