Technical Concepts Explained:

Wireless Connectivity Sporadic:
Wireless connectivity being sporadic means it's inconsistent or unreliable. It implies that the connection may drop or become weak unpredictably, affecting internet access and communication.

Irreversibly Damaging and Disabling IoT Devices:
Permanent harm or disabling IoT devices results from physical damage, software manipulation, or security breaches, leading to loss of functionality and financial loss.

PDoS (Permanent Denial of Service):
Cyberattack rendering systems unusable indefinitely, disrupting services by corrupting firmware or software.

Spoofing:
Deceptive tactic impersonates to deceive, often online, for malicious purposes.

CAT5e Cable:
Enhanced Ethernet cable for faster networking with reduced interference, commonly used in homes and offices.

EMI (Electromagnetic Interference):
EMI disrupts electronic devices via electromagnetic radiation, affecting performance or causing malfunctions. It's common in environments with electrical equipment or radio waves.

VLAN (Virtual Local Area Network):
VLAN divides a physical network into multiple logical networks, isolating traffic for enhanced security and performance.

Network Segmentation:
Network segmentation divides a network into smaller parts to improve security and performance. It isolates critical assets and restricts unauthorized access, enhancing overall network efficiency and reliability.

cat /proc/meminfo:
Command in Linux displaying memory information, including total, free, and used memory. It provides insight into system memory usage and is useful for diagnosing performance issues or monitoring memory usage in real-time.

kill -s SIGCHLD pid:
Command in Unix-like systems to send signal SIGCHLD to process with specified PID, often used to manage child processes, typically used by system administrators or developers for process management and control.


rpm -i installpackage.rpm --nodeps:
Command in Linux to forcefully install an RPM package without checking dependencies. Useful for installing packages when dependency issues arise, but may lead to system instability if dependencies are not resolved manually.

Symbolic Links:
Symbolic links, or symlinks, are shortcuts pointing to files or directories. They act as references, allowing users to access files or directories from different locations without duplicating data. Symbolic links facilitate organization and reduce redundancy in file systems.

chmod u=rwx, g=rx, o=x filename:
Command in Unix-like systems to change file permissions. "u=rwx" grants the owner read, write, and execute permissions, "g=rx" grants the group read and execute permissions, and "o=x" grants others execute permission. It regulates access to files or directories based on user, group, and others.

BYOD (Bring Your Own Device):
BYOD refers to employees using personal devices for work. It offers flexibility but poses security risks. Companies establish policies to manage threats, ensuring data protection while enabling employee productivity and convenience.

Secure Technical Deployment:
Secure technical deployment involves implementing technology solutions in a protected manner to mitigate risks and safeguard data. It encompasses secure configurations, encryption, access controls, and monitoring to ensure resilience against threats and compliance with security standards.

SLA (Service Level Agreement):
SLA defines the level of service expected between a service provider and a customer. It outlines metrics like uptime, response times, and support availability, ensuring mutual understanding and accountability. SLAs help manage expectations and maintain service quality for both parties involved.


MOU (Memorandum of Understanding):
MOU is a formal agreement between parties outlining their intentions and responsibilities towards a common goal or project. Though not legally binding like a contract, it establishes mutual understanding and expectations, guiding future collaboration or negotiations.

BIA (Business Impact Analysis):
BIA assesses the potential impact of disruptions on business operations. It identifies critical processes, their dependencies, and recovery priorities to develop strategies for minimizing downtime and losses during disasters or emergencies, ensuring continuity and resilience for the organization.

Threat Awareness:
Threat awareness involves recognizing potential risks or dangers to systems, networks, or data. It includes understanding various threat actors, attack vectors, and vulnerabilities to proactively implement security measures and countermeasures, mitigating the impact of cyber threats on organizations and individuals.

Utilizing MFA (Multi-Factor Authentication):
Utilizing MFA adds an extra layer of security by requiring users to provide multiple forms of verification to access accounts or systems. This typically involves something the user knows (like a password) and something they have (like a smartphone or hardware token), enhancing protection against unauthorized access.

Implementing SSO (Single Sign-On):
Implementing SSO allows users to access multiple applications or services with a single set of credentials. It streamlines authentication processes, enhancing user experience and security by reducing the need for multiple passwords and centralizing identity management across different platforms.


Cable locks: Security devices used to prevent theft of laptops or other portable devices by attaching them to a stationary object via a cable and lock mechanism.


Shoulder surfing: A form of visual hacking where someone observes sensitive information (e.g., passwords, PINs) being entered on a device or system by looking over the shoulder of the user.

The extension .rtf: Stands for Rich Text Format, a file format used for storing formatted text and graphics. Commonly used for documents that need to be easily shared between different word processing software.


IMAP: Internet Message Access Protocol. It's an email protocol that allows an email client to access email messages stored on a mail server, enabling users to manage their emails from multiple devices.


PII: Personally Identifiable Information. Data that can be used to identify or locate an individual, such as name, social security number, address, and more. Protection of PII is crucial for privacy and security.



SOHO wireless router: Small Office/Home Office wireless router. It's a networking device that allows multiple devices to connect to the internet wirelessly within a small office or home office environment.


CAD application: Computer-Aided Design application. Software used by engineers, architects, and designers to create precise drawings and models in 2D or 3D, aiding in the design and visualization of complex structures or objects.


64-bit vs 32-bit: Refers to the architecture of a computer's processor and operating system. 64-bit systems can handle larger amounts of memory and perform calculations more efficiently than 32-bit systems.


Network Attached Storage appliance: A device that provides centralized storage accessible over a network, allowing multiple users to store and retrieve data from a single location.

Expansion card: A hardware component that can be inserted into a computer's motherboard to add functionality or connectivity, such as graphics cards, sound cards, or network adapters.

The uses of motherboard: Main circuit board in a computer. It houses essential components such as CPU, RAM, and connectors for peripherals. It serves as a platform for these components to communicate and function together.


VoIP: Voice over Internet Protocol. Technology that allows voice communication and multimedia sessions over the internet, typically replacing traditional phone services with digital alternatives.


CDMA, GSM, LTE: Mobile communication standards. CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access) and GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) are older cellular technologies, while LTE (Long-Term Evolution) is a 4G wireless communication standard providing faster data speeds.


The extension .m3u: Stands for MP3 URL, a file format used for multimedia playlists. It contains a list of audio or video files to be played sequentially by media players or streaming applications.

PS/2: A type of port used to connect peripherals like keyboards and mice to a computer. It's named after the IBM Personal System/2 series of computers where it was commonly used.


FireWire: A high-speed serial bus interface standard used for connecting devices such as digital cameras, external hard drives, and audio interfaces to computers.


eSATA: External Serial ATA. It's an interface used to connect external storage devices like hard drives to a computer, providing faster data transfer speeds compared to USB connections.


