Transcript
1. Adding annotations
00:00 - 00:07
Let's learn how to create, style and position specific annotations in visualizations.

2. What are annotations?
00:07 - 00:33
Annotations are extra boxes of text and data added to a plot. They are always present. These serve two main purposes. Firstly you may wish to draw attention to or add notes on a particular data point. Or, you may just wish to add a text box with variables and text, much like a text box in Microsoft Word.

3. Creating annotations
00:33 - 01:01
In Plotly you can add annotations in several ways. There is the add_annotation method for adding a single annotation. You can also use the update_layout method which has an annotations argument. This is a list of annotation-objects, so this method is useful for adding multiple annotations. For consistency, we will stick with update_layout() since you're already familiar with it.

4. Important annotation arguments
01:01 - 01:56
There are a few key arguments of an annotation object, a dictionary, worth noting. The showarrow Boolean argument determines whether an arrow is added to point to a particular data point. Without this you just have a textbox. The arrow can be styled too. The text argument is the actual text to be displayed. As it is a pythonic string you can insert variables here too. The x and y arguments are coordinates that position the annotation. These can either be linked to a data point or absolutely on the plot, like a text box in Microsoft Word. Be careful of placing annotations absolutely as if your data changes, it may overlap. We'll look at how to specify positioning in both ways.

5. Positioning annotations
01:56 - 02:32
By default, the x and y arguments will be in the units of the plot You can also position absolutely by setting the xref and yref arguments to be paper. Then the x and y arguments are between 0 and 1 and represent the percentage along that axis to place the annotation. It is not linked to a particular x-y point. For example, setting x and y to zero point 5 with this method would be right in the center of the plot.

6. Data-linked annotations
02:32 - 03:05
Perhaps in our company revenue scatterplot we want to annotate our company. We know the revenue and employee count for this. Here is the code. You can see an x and y position in the DataFrame units We want an arrow of a certain size using the arrowhead argument and we want some text that is black. We use update_layout to add the annotation. This is what we produce, an arrow and some text linked to a specific point.

7. Floating annotation
03:05 - 03:53
We can also just add an annotation without any data link, positioned absolutely. Let's say we were pitching to investors and wanted a strong message in our plot. We have set xref and yref to 'paper'. Now our x and y are not in our DataFrame units, but in a percentage across the plot to position the annotation. Let's set the position to be 50% across the x-axis and 80% up the y-axis. We turn off the arrow and put in some text in a box with a background color of red. This is what is produced: an annotation floating in the middle of the x axis and most of the way up the y with our text and style.

8. Let's practice!
03:53 - 03:59
Let's practice creating and styling some annotations.
