This code analyzes the Iris dataset using pandas, matplotlib, and seaborn. It loads the data, summarizes statistics, checks for missing values, and visualizes data distributions and relationships through histograms, scatter plots, and pair plots within a Jupyter Notebook.



Cell 1
python
 
pip install jupyter pandas matplotlib seaborn
Explanation: Installs necessary Python libraries for data analysis and visualization.

Cell 2
python
 
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns
Explanation: Imports pandas for data manipulation, matplotlib for plotting, and seaborn for statistical plots.

Cell 3
python
 
%matplotlib inline
Explanation: Ensures that plots are displayed within the Jupyter Notebook.

Cell 4
python
 
iris = sns.load_dataset('iris')
iris.head()
Explanation: Loads the Iris dataset from seaborn and displays the first five rows.

 : Displays the first five rows of the Iris dataset.

Cell 5
python
 
iris.shape
Explanation: Returns the dimensions of the Iris dataset.

 : (150, 5) indicating 150 rows and 5 columns.

Cell 6
python
 
iris.columns
Explanation: Lists the column names of the dataset.

 : Index of column names: 'sepal_length', 'sepal_width', 'petal_length', 'petal_width', 'species'.

Cell 7
python
 
iris.describe()
Explanation: Provides summary statistics for the numerical columns.

 : Count, mean, std, min, 25%, 50%, 75%, max for numerical features.

Cell 8
python
 
iris.isnull().sum()
Explanation: Checks for missing values in the dataset.

 : Shows zero missing values for all columns.

Cell 9
python
 
iris['sepal_length'].hist(bins=20)
plt.xlabel('Sepal Length')
plt.ylabel('Frequency')
plt.title('Distribution of Sepal Length')
plt.show()
Explanation: Plots a histogram of sepal length distribution.

 : Histogram showing the frequency distribution of sepal lengths.

Cell 10
python
 
sns.scatterplot(x='sepal_length', y='sepal_width', data=iris, hue='species')
plt.title('Sepal Length vs Sepal Width')
plt.show()
Explanation: Creates a scatter plot of sepal length vs sepal width, colored by species.

 : Scatter plot showing the relationship between sepal length and width, colored by species.

Cell 11
python
 
sns.pairplot(iris, hue='species')
plt.show()
Explanation: Generates pairwise scatter plots for all numerical features, colored by species.

 : Pairplot matrix visualizing relationships between features, separated by species.