aws configure: Configure AWS CLI settings.
aws s3 ls: List contents of an S3 bucket.
aws ec2 describe-instances: Describe EC2 instances.
aws s3 cp: Copy files to/from S3.
aws ec2 run-instances: Launch EC2 instances.
aws ec2 terminate-instances: Terminate EC2 instances.
aws s3 mb: Create an S3 bucket.
aws s3 rb: Remove an S3 bucket.
aws ec2 create-security-group: Create an EC2 security group.
aws ec2 authorize-security-group-ingress: Authorize ingress rules for an EC2 security group.
aws ec2 create-key-pair: Create an EC2 key pair.
aws ec2 delete-key-pair: Delete an EC2 key pair.
aws ec2 describe-security-groups: Describe EC2 security groups.
aws ec2 create-volume: Create an EBS volume.
aws ec2 attach-volume: Attach an EBS volume to an EC2 instance.
aws ec2 detach-volume: Detach an EBS volume from an EC2 instance.
aws ec2 describe-volumes: Describe EBS volumes.
aws rds describe-db-instances: Describe RDS instances.
aws rds create-db-instance: Create an RDS instance.
aws rds delete-db-instance: Delete an RDS instance.
aws rds modify-db-instance: Modify an RDS instance.
aws rds restore-db-instance-from-db-snapshot: Restore an RDS instance from a snapshot.
aws rds describe-db-snapshots: Describe RDS snapshots.
aws lambda list-functions: List Lambda functions.
aws lambda create-function: Create a Lambda function.
aws lambda delete-function: Delete a Lambda function.
aws lambda invoke: Invoke a Lambda function.
aws lambda update-function-code: Update a Lambda function's code.
aws cloudformation create-stack: Create a CloudFormation stack.
aws cloudformation delete-stack: Delete a CloudFormation stack.
aws cloudformation describe-stacks: Describe CloudFormation stacks.
aws cloudformation deploy: Deploy CloudFormation templates.
aws iam list-users: List IAM users.
aws iam create-user: Create an IAM user.
aws iam delete-user: Delete an IAM user.
aws iam create-group: Create an IAM group.
aws iam delete-group: Delete an IAM group.
aws iam add-user-to-group: Add a user to an IAM group.
aws iam create-policy: Create an IAM policy.
aws iam delete-policy: Delete an IAM policy.
aws iam attach-user-policy: Attach an IAM policy to a user.
aws iam attach-group-policy: Attach an IAM policy to a group.
aws iam attach-role-policy: Attach an IAM policy to a role.
aws iam detach-user-policy: Detach an IAM policy from a user.
aws iam detach-group-policy: Detach an IAM policy from a group.
aws iam detach-role-policy: Detach an IAM policy from a role.
aws ecs list-clusters: List ECS clusters.
aws ecs create-cluster: Create an ECS cluster.
aws ecs delete-cluster: Delete an ECS cluster.
aws ecs describe-services: Describe ECS services.
