ZenTao Cloud Installer


Introduction
English | 简体中文

ZenTao Cloud Installer, developed by Websoft9, is an automatic installation program of ZenTao based on Ansible and shell. It helps user install ZenTao and pre-configure required items automatically and users only need to run a command on Linux. It simplifies the complicated installation and initialization process.

System Requirement
System Requirement to install this repository are as following：

Conditions	Details	Notes
Operating System	CentOS7.x, Ubuntu20.04, Amazon Linux2	Optional
Public Cloud	AWS, Azure, Alibaba Cloud, HUAWEI ClOUD, Tencent Cloud	Optional
Private Cloud	KVM, VMware, VirtualBox, OpenStack	Optional
Server Configuration	vCPU no less than 1 core, Memory no less than 1 GIB, Storage no less than 20 GB, Swap no less than 2GB	Bandwidth no less than 100M
To learn more information, please view Installation & Configuration.

Ecosystem
Core components of this repository: ZenTao, PHP, Apache/Nginx, MySQL, phpmyadmin on Docker, Redis, Docker

Learn more about Parameters.

Installation
You can install it by thi Cloud Installer solution all in one. In addition, you can deploy image published on major Cloud Platform by Websoft9.

All-in-one Installer
Run the automatic installation script with root authority to start the installation. If necessary, users need to make interactive choices, and then wait patiently until the installation is successful.

$ sudo su -
$ wget -N https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Websoft9/ansible-linux/main/scripts/install.sh; bash install.sh -r zentao
If the network is broken or blocked, SSH will be interrupted and the installation will fail. Please reinstall.

Image on Cloud
Follow our ZenTao image for installation on major Cloud Platform.

Documentation
Administrator Guide

License
LGPL-3.0, Additional Terms: It is not allowed to publish free or paid image based on this repository in any Cloud platform's Marketplace.

Copyright (c) 2016-present, Websoft9

This program provided by Websoft9 contains a series of software with separate copyright notices and license terms. Your use of the source code for the software included is subject to the terms and conditions of its own license.

FAQ
How to install and view the latest release?
This repository install way is Isntallation for download binaries files , you can view the version from Official URL.
We will check Release version regularly. Update and test this project to ensure that users can successfully install the required version of ZenTao.

Can I run this repository on Ansible Tower?
Yes.

Although the results of the deploy by image are consistent with the results of deploy by script, what is the difference between the two deployment methods?
Suggest you read the document Deploy by Image vs Deploy by Script.
