1. Customizing scatter plots
00:00 - 00:07
So far, we've only scratched the surface of what we're able to do with scatter plots in Seaborn.

2. Scatter plot overview
00:07 - 00:59
As a reminder, scatter plots are a great tool for visualizing the relationship between two quantitative variables. We've seen a few ways to add more information to them as well, by creating subplots or plotting subgroups with different colored points. In addition to these, Seaborn allows you to add more information to scatter plots by varying the size, the style, and the transparency of the points. All of these options can be used in both the "scatterplot()" and "relplot()" functions, but we'll continue to use "relplot()" for the rest of the course since it's more flexible and allows us to create subplots. For the rest of this lesson, we'll use the tips dataset to learn how to use each customization and cover best practices for deciding which customizations to use.

3. Subgroups with point size
00:59 - 01:48
The first customization we'll talk about is point size. Here, we're creating a scatter plot of total bill versus tip amount. We want each point on the scatter plot to be sized based on the number of people in the group, with larger groups having bigger points on the plot. To do this, we'll set the "size" parameter equal to the variable name "size" from our dataset. As this example demonstrates, varying point size is best used if the variable is either a quantitative variable or a categorical variable that represents different levels of something, like "small", "medium", and "large". This plot is a bit hard to read because all of the points are of the same color.

1 Waskom, M. L. (2021). seaborn: statistical data visualization. https://seaborn.pydata.org/
4. Point size and hue
01:48 - 02:22
We can make it easier by using the "size" parameter in combination with the "hue" parameter. To do this, set "hue" equal to the variable name "size". Notice that because "size" is a quantitative variable, Seaborn will automatically color the points different shades of the same color instead of different colors per category value like we saw in previous plots. Now larger groups have both larger and darker points, which provides better contrast and makes the plot easier to read.

1 Waskom, M. L. (2021). seaborn: statistical data visualization. https://seaborn.pydata.org/
5. Subgroups with point style
02:22 - 02:52
The next customization we'll look at is the point style. Setting the "style" parameter to a variable name will use different point styles for each value of the variable. Here's a scatter plot we've seen before, where we use "hue" to create different colored points based on smoking status. Setting "style" equal to "smoker" allows us to better distinguish these subgroups by plotting smokers with a different point style in addition to a different color.

1 Waskom, M. L. (2021). seaborn: statistical data visualization. https://seaborn.pydata.org/
6. Changing point transparency
02:52 - 03:28
The last customization we'll look at is point transparency. Setting the "alpha" parameter to a value between 0 and 1 will vary the transparency of the points in the plot, with 0 being completely transparent and 1 being completely non-transparent. Here, we've set "alpha" equal to 0.4. This customization can be useful when you have many overlapping points on the scatter plot, so you can see which areas of the plot have more or less observations.

1 Waskom, M. L. (2021). seaborn: statistical data visualization. https://seaborn.pydata.org/
7. Let's practice!
03:28 - 03:43
