1. Democratizing Artificial Intelligence
00:00 - 00:06
It's time to broaden our focus and analyze the position and implications of AI in society as a whole.

2. AI democratization
00:06 - 01:01
AI is already bringing a profound transformation in every aspect of our lives, part of which we still cannot fully understand. It is expanding the limits and meaning of many industries, and this paradigm shift is also happening at a societal level. How to bring the beneficial side of AI to everyone and eliminate its potentially harmful side? That's the purpose of AI democratization. Democratizing AI not only means bringing the practical use of AI systems and solutions to everyone, without the technical knowledge needed. It can also be understood as the design of AI tools that any human can effortlessly utilize to supplement many of our daily tasks requiring human intelligence. In summary, helping us make decisions and conduct processes, rather than replacing us.

3. AI literacy
01:01 - 01:13
AI literacy plays an important role in bringing AI democratization. It refers to the understanding individuals or organizations have about AI concepts

4. AI literacy
01:13 - 01:15
technologies

5. AI literacy
01:15 - 01:28
And their implications, both in concrete organizations and in society, the economy, and the environment. One of the aims of this course is precisely to provide you with this sense of AI literacy.

6. How AI literacy contributes to AI democratization?
01:28 - 02:24
Here's how AI literacy contributes to AI democratization: It empowers individuals by equipping them with the knowledge and skills to engage with AI technologies, be aware of their capabilities and limitations, and make informed decisions guided by data. It promotes an understanding of ethical considerations surrounding AI, such as fairness, privacy, and transparency, advocating for responsible AI practices. It advocates inclusivity and participation in an AI-driven society, empowering individuals from diverse backgrounds to engage in AI-related activities and participatory decision-making. Lastly, it encourages critical thinking and the ability to critically evaluate AI systems, their outputs, and their impact, making informed judgments about their use.

7. Data democratization
02:24 - 03:01
Data democratization is closely linked to AI democratization, and it can be understood at an organizational level and societal level. Data democratization in organizations consists in making the information that underlies data transparent and accessible to every different role in the organization, helping gain a competitive advantage in the market, optimizing activities, and adopting a proactive strategic mindset. Upskilling is key in this democratization process, training people in the responsible and effective use of data.

8. Data democratization
03:01 - 03:39
In society, data democratization refers to the idea of making data and information accessible to a wide range of individuals, without barriers and enabling people to access, use, and contribute to data-driven insights. Data democratization can be achieved through initiatives such as open data policies, transparent data-sharing practices, user-friendly data visualization tools, and the promotion of data literacy. The goal is to empower communities with data, fostering innovation, informed decision-making, and societal progress.

9. Let's practice!
03:39 - 03:48
Now that you've been exposed to the building blocks of AI democratization, it's time to reinforce your learning with a bit of practice.
