1. What AI can -and cannot- do?
00:00 - 00:09
Getting acquainted with AI requires having a general understanding of tasks and problems AI can solve, as well as some of its limitations.

2. Things AI can do
00:09 - 00:32
Among the many capabilities of AI, we can list the ability to make predictions and inference, recognizing patterns in data, optimizing and automating arduous processes. This is not an exhaustive classification of tasks AI can do, but it represents a vast majority of duties AI can perform, as we will illustrate in the following examples.

3. Predictions and inference
00:32 - 00:46
One of the most popular areas in AI is Machine Learning: building systems that, based on data, learn to make predictions or inferences, allowing us to learn from the past.

4. Predictions and inference
00:46 - 00:55
Although they are similar tasks, predictions are about forecasting something yet to happen, such as a high-precision weather forecast.

5. Predictions and inference
00:55 - 01:06
Inferences focus on determining a target output based on a set of inputs or predictors, like suggesting a book you may enjoy based on your preferences as a customer.

6. Pattern recognition
01:06 - 01:55
Pattern recognition is a more general term to refer to AI tasks -including predictions and inference- where data is analyzed to find patterns in it, helping make decisions. Other pattern recognition tasks made possible by AI include: Clustering: used in applications like customer segmentation for the discovery of groups of data with similar characteristics. Anomaly detection: used in security and finance domains to identify transactions or other data occurrences that deviate from the normal. And data generation or Generative AI, a recent and popular use of AI for text, image, and sound generation, consists in generating new data based on existing data patterns.

7. Optimization
01:55 - 02:26
AI can also solve plenty of optimization problems, by finding most efficient possible solution given a number of constraints. Examples of optimization problems solvable by AI include: finding the optimal route for delivery services; efficiently operating and controlling energy grids; building a dynamic pricing strategy in travel bookings that maximizes revenue; and launching discount campaigns to increment product or brand sales.

8. Automation
02:26 - 03:02
Finally, AI can be used in automation, which is the ability of a machine to follow some rules to perform some given tasks repeatedly and autonomously. Automation itself is not AI, as it does not involve mimicking human intelligent processes, but AI can help improve automation, improving the efficiency of processes that would be time-consuming when performed by humans, such as: analyzing and classifying a batch of documents or photos, screening a large number of job applications, and using robots to manage parcels stored in a delivery warehouse.

9. Limitations of AI
03:02 - 04:01
Despite its capabilities and impressive advances in recent years, AI still has a number of limitations. For example, conversational AI solutions like chatbots excel at answering human enquiries, but they cannot mimic critical aspects in social interactions, such as emotional intelligence, and empathy. New situations not seen before, like a brand new product, may cause AI solutions like personalized recommendation engines to have no clue which user might be interested in it. Bias is another common issue that may limit the usefulness of AI. It occurs when the system makes predictions that favor certain groups over others based on sex, age, ethnicity, etc. Last but not least, data is the main fuel of AI but also its most evident limitation: without sufficient quality data to learn from, the effectiveness of most AI solutions is at stake.

10. Let's practice!
04:01 - 04:05
Now let's practice.
