Transcript
1. Customizing color
00:00 - 00:04
Let's learn how to customize colors in our plots.

2. Customization in general
00:04 - 00:52
Let's discuss customization generally first before looking at color. Customization in plotly can be achieved in several ways. You can customize when you create the figure if there is an appropriate argument available. For example, the color argument we will discuss in this lesson. After a figure is created, the super important update layout function allows extensive customization. This takes a dictionary as an argument, specifying layout elements to be updated. For example, updating the title text. How you undertake customization depends on how you create the plot and what you are customizing. There are many properties possible.

3. Why customize color?
00:52 - 01:15
Customizing the color of your plots is a powerful method that can assist with both; Making plots look awesome for cosmetic and stylistic purposes And conveying insights for analytical purposes. For example, in this scatterplot you will make in a future lesson, adding colors based on species adds a third dimension to analyze!

4. Some color theory
01:15 - 01:43
Computers use RGB encoding to specify colors. It is created from three digits between 0 to 255 that mixes Red, Green and Blue together. Imagine mixing Red, Green and Blue paint together. For example, 0 0 255 is blue and 255 255 0 is yellow. Read more at this link.

5. Specifying colors in plotly.express
01:43 - 02:07
Many plotly express figures have a color argument. This is the column to use for colors, not the color itself. Every category in this column is automatically given a color. A color scale is created if you specify a numerical column. Here's our bar chart from a previous lesson but with color added for the student's city.

1 Make sure to check the documentation for each figure.
6. Our colors revealed
02:07 - 02:19
Here is the plot before. Now, we add 'color' and each city is a different color. Red and Blue are automatically chosen for us.

7. Color with univariate plots
02:19 - 02:35
Beware using the plotly express color argument with univariate plots as this can produce interesting results. Histograms appear with stacked bars and box plots produce side-by-side box plots.

8. Specific colors in plotly.express
02:35 - 02:58
Let's say we didn't want red and blue or the automatic colors plotly provides but specific colors. The argument color_discrete_map should be a dictionary that maps categorical values to colors. Note that you can also use a string of the color name for simple colors. We will generally stick with rgb codes for consistency.

9. Our specific colors
02:58 - 03:27
Let's use some specific colors. A sandy yellow for Sydney's beaches and navy blue for Melbourne, an official state color. The setup is similar to before. We specify a dictionary to map each city to a specific RGB color. We also need to specify which DataFrame column to use this map with, the city column. Now we get a plot with our specified colors. Nice stuff.

10. Color scales in plotly.express
03:27 - 03:57
You may wish to have a color scale based on a numerical column. You could want a single color range, such as light green to dark green as in this example. Or you could want multiple colors in the color scale to merge into each other, such as green into blue as in this example. The argument color_continuous_scale allows us to do this with built-in or constructed color scales.

11. Using built-in color scales
03:57 - 04:17
Let's see a built-in color range. We set the numerical column, temp, as the color argument and use the 'inferno' built-in scale. Here is our plot - looks nice! There are many other built-in scales available.

12. Constructing our own color range
04:17 - 04:49
Let's make a simple color scale with yellow through orange to red at the hottest temperature. We create the scale as a separate variable, listing the rgb codes in order to be used in our plot. The top of the code is familiar, creating the bar chart. Now instead of a built-in scale, we use our list of rgb codes for color_continuous_scale. This is the plot produced. A simple but powerful color scale of yellow, orange and red.

13. Let's practice!
04:49 - 04:55
Let's practice adding color to some plots.
