1. What violations are caught in each district?
00:00 - 00:13
In the last section, we saw how easy it is to create line plots directly from a DataFrame. Now, we're going to make different types of plots from DataFrames.

2. Computing a frequency table
00:13 - 01:17
One pandas function that might be new to you is crosstab(), short for cross-tabulation. To use crosstab(), you pass it two pandas Series that represent categories, and it outputs a frequency table in the form of a DataFrame. You can think of a frequency table as a tally of how many times each combination of values occurs in the dataset. In this case, we passed driver_race and driver_gender to crosstab(), and it tells us how many rows contain each combination of race and gender. For example, 551 Asian female drivers were stopped, which you can verify by filtering the DataFrame and checking the shape. Notice that race is along the index of the DataFrame and gender is along the columns, though you could transpose the DataFrame by reversing the order in which race and gender are passed to crosstab(). Let's go ahead and save the frequency table as an object called table.

3. Selecting a DataFrame slice
01:17 - 01:47
As you might recall from previous courses, the loc accessor allows you to select portions of a DataFrame by label. Given our frequency table, let's pretend we wanted to select the Asian through Hispanic rows only. Using loc, we can extract this slice of the DataFrame by specifying the starting and ending labels, separated by a colon. Let's overwrite our existing table object with this smaller DataFrame.

4. Creating a line plot
01:47 - 02:10
If we plot the table object, we'll get a line plot by default, in which the index is along the x-axis and each column becomes a line. However, a line plot is not appropriate in this case because it implies a change in time along the x-axis, whereas the x-axis actually represents three distinct categories.

5. Creating a bar plot
02:10 - 02:50
By specifying kind equals bar, you can create a bar plot, which is much more appropriate than a line plot for comparing categorical data. With this plot, the numbers in our frequency table have been converted to bars for which the height represents the magnitude. Each gender has been assigned a color, and the two gender bars for each race are placed next to one another. The bar plot makes it especially easy to see the gender difference within each race. For all three races, we see that the number of males stopped is far greater than the number of females stopped.

6. Stacking the bars
02:50 - 03:35
A variation of the bar plot is the stacked bar plot, which you can generate by adding the argument stacked equals True. For each race, the two gender bars are now stacked on top of one another. The strength of this plot is that it helps you to see the total stops for each race, which was not as obvious when the bars were side-by-side. By emphasizing the totals, however, this plot slightly deemphasizes the individual components of each bar, and makes those components harder to compare against one another. Neither type of bar plot is right or wrong, rather you should choose the plot that best helps to answer the question you're asking.

7. Let's practice!
03:35 - 03:48
It's your turn to practice these techniques while visualizing what violations are caught in each police district.
